Use MANIFEST.in style directives to build collection (#78422)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_collections_distributing.rst

You can upload your tarball to one or more distribution servers. You can also distribute your collection locally by copying the tarball to install your collection directly on target systems.

.. _ignoring_files_and_folders_collections:

Ignoring files and folders
--------------------------

> For more information on the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, see :ref:`collections_galaxy_meta`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can exclude files from your collection with either  :ref:`build_ignore <build_ignore>` or  :ref:`manifest_directive`. For more information on the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, see :ref:`collections_galaxy_meta`.
```

     - playbooks/sensitive
     - '*.tar.gz'

.. note::
     The ``build_ignore`` feature is only supported with ``ansible-galaxy collection build`` in Ansible 2.10 or newer.

Manifest Directives
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. versionadded:: 2.14

```

With the 2.14 release, the :file:`galaxy.yml` file now supports manifest directives that are historically used in Python packaging, as described `here <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/using-manifest-in/#manifest-in-commands>`_.

For example to exclude the :file:`sensitive` folder within the ``playbooks`` folder as well any ``.tar.gz`` archives, set the following in your :file:`galaxy.yml` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

>    manifest_directives:

Reviewer 3: re: the thing I mentioned about having an "escape hatch" for cases where our defaults might exclude something, what if there were two mutually-exclusive versions of the key, like:
`manifest_directives` and `manifest_directives_no_inherit` or `_no_default` or something... Naming things is hard- probably makes sense for the non-default version to be longer rather than something like `additional_manifest_directives` or `user_manifest_directives` for the case we hope people will use.

Author: I'll need to think about it.  Naming is hard, but I think it's an important feature.

Author: Done.  See `manifest_directives_full`

   recursive-include plugins/callback **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/cliconf **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/connection **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/filter **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/httpapi **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/inventory **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/lookup **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/netconf **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/shell **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/strategy **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/test **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/vars **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/modules **.ps1 **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/module_utils **.ps1 **.psm1 **.cs
   # manifest_directives from galaxy.yml inserted here
   exclude galaxy.yml galaxy.yaml MANIFEST.json FILES.json <namespace>-<name>-*.tar.gz
   recursive-exclude tests/output **
   global-exclude /.* /__pycache__

.. note::
   ``<namespace>-<name>-*.tar.gz`` is expanded with the actual ``namespace`` and ``name``.

The ``manifest_directives`` supplied in :file:`galaxy.yml` are inserted after the default includes, and before the default excludes.

> To enable the use of mainfest directives without supplying your own, insert either ``manifest_directives: []`` or ``manifest_directives: null`` in the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, ensuring to remove the use of ``build_ignore``.

Reviewer 3: s/mainfest/manifest/

> To enable the use of mainfest directives without supplying your own, insert either ``manifest_directives: []`` or ``manifest_directives: null`` in the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, ensuring to remove the use of ``build_ignore``.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable the use of manifest directives without supplying your own, insert either ``manifest_directives: []`` or ``manifest_directives: null`` in the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, ensuring to remove the use of ``build_ignore``.
```

     - playbooks/sensitive
     - '*.tar.gz'

.. note::
     The ``build_ignore`` feature is only supported with ``ansible-galaxy collection build`` in Ansible 2.10 or newer.

.. _manifest_directives:

Manifest Directives
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. versionadded:: 2.14

> The :file:`galaxy.yml` file supports manifest directives that are historically used in Python packaging, as described `here <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/using-manifest-in/#manifest-in-commands>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :file:`galaxy.yml` file supports manifest directives that are historically used in Python packaging, as described in `MANIFEST.in commands <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/using-manifest-in/#manifest-in-commands>`_.
```

Reviewer: ^^ bit of a nit but accessibility guidelines say we should avoid 'here' as a link and try to describe where the link is going instead. Helps for those using screen readers.

.. note::
   The use of ``manifest`` requires installing the optional ``distlib`` Python dependency.

.. note::
   The ``manifest`` feature is only supported with ``ansible-galaxy collection build`` in Ansible 2.14 or newer, and is mutually exclusive with ``build_ignore``.

> For example to exclude the :file:`sensitive` folder within the ``playbooks`` folder as well any ``.tar.gz`` archives, set the following in your :file:`galaxy.yml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to exclude the :file:`sensitive` folder within the ``playbooks`` folder as well as any ``.tar.gz`` archives, set the following in your :file:`galaxy.yml` file:
```

   recursive-include plugins */**.py
   recursive-include plugins/become **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/cache **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/callback **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/cliconf **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/connection **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/filter **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/httpapi **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/inventory **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/lookup **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/netconf **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/shell **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/strategy **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/test **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/vars **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/modules **.ps1 **.yml **.yaml
   recursive-include plugins/module_utils **.ps1 **.psm1 **.cs
   # manifest.directives from galaxy.yml inserted here
   exclude galaxy.yml galaxy.yaml MANIFEST.json FILES.json <namespace>-<name>-*.tar.gz
   recursive-exclude tests/output **
   global-exclude /.* /__pycache__

.. note::
   ``<namespace>-<name>-*.tar.gz`` is expanded with the actual ``namespace`` and ``name``.

> The ``manifest.directives`` supplied in :file:`galaxy.yml` are inserted after the default includes, and before the default excludes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``manifest.directives`` supplied in :file:`galaxy.yml` are inserted after the default includes and before the default excludes.
```

> To enable the use of manifest directives without supplying your own, insert either ``manifest: {}`` or ``manifest: null`` in the :file:`galaxy.yml` file, ensuring to remove the use of ``build_ignore``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the use of manifest directives without supplying your own, insert either ``manifest: {}`` or ``manifest: null`` in the :file:`galaxy.yml` file and remove any use of ``build_ignore``.
```

> If the default manifest directives do not meet your needs, you can set ``manifest.omit_default_directives`` to a value of ``true`` in :file:`galaxy.yml`. This will require a full compliment of manifest directives to be specified in :file:`galaxy.yml`. The defaults documented above are a good starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the default manifest directives do not meet your needs, you can set ``manifest.omit_default_directives`` to a value of ``true`` in :file:`galaxy.yml`. You then must specify a  full compliment of manifest directives in :file:`galaxy.yml`. The defaults documented above are a good starting point.
```
